Improvement/dtm guide (#473)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/dtm/asset-hierarchy-bundle/creating-assets-bulk-import.md

---
weight: 20
title: Creating assets via bulk import
layout: redirect
---

In case you want to import the entire **Asset hierarchy** with all assets at once, same can be done using the Bulk import feature. For each [**Asset type**](/dtm/asset-types/#asset-types), a CSV template is provided.

You can fill in the required details in this template and upload this file, to create the assets in bulk for the selected **Asset type**.

##### **Creating a role to use Bulk import feature**

To use the Bulk import feature, you need to give permissions for **Digital Twin** role.

> Follow the below steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Navigate to [**Administration**](/users-guide/administration/#overview) via the application switcher in the top bar.

Click on **Roles** under the Quick links.

Click on the role which is already assigned for your username under "Global roles" tab.

Set all available permissions for **Digital Twin** under "Permissions" section by selecting all check boxes.

Under **Application access**, check "Digital Twin" checkbox.

Under CUSTOM APPLICATIONS, check "Digital Twin Manager" checkbox.

Click **Save**.

![bulk-import-permission](/images/dtm/bulk-import/dtm-bulk-import-assign-permissions.png)

> On successful save a notification is received indicating the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Once the permissions are assigned, bulk import feature can be used.

> >**Info:** If the permissions are not assigned, then the CSV template will not get downloaded correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
If the permissions are not assigned, then the CSV template will not get downloaded correctly.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}
```

##### **Download CSV template for bulk import**

You have to download the CSV template for the required **Asset type** first.

> Follow the below steps to do the same:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
weight: 20
title: Creating assets via bulk import
layout: redirect
---

If you want to import the entire **Asset hierarchy** with all assets at once, you can use the bulk import feature. For each [Asset type](/dtm/asset-types/#asset-types), a CSV template is provided.

You can fill in the required details in this template and upload this file, to create the assets in bulk for the selected **Asset type**.

> ##### Creating a role to use Bulk import feature

Reviewer 2: Why does this start with a heading level 5?

To use the Bulk import feature, you must give permissions for **Digital Twin** role, following these steps:

> Navigate to [**Administration**](/users-guide/administration/#overview) via the application switcher in the top right corner.

Reviewer 2: This should be a numbered list

> Navigate to [**Administration**](/users-guide/administration/#overview) via the application switcher in the top right corner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to [the Administration application](/users-guide/administration/#overview) via the application switcher in the top right corner.
```

Under **Quick links** click **Roles**.

In the **Global roles** tab, select the role which is already assigned for your username.

> Set all available permissions for **Digital Twin** under "Permissions" section by selecting the following check boxes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the "Permissions" section, set all available permissions for **Digital Twin**  by selecting the following check boxes:
```

                * Under **Application access**, select the "Digital Twin".

                     * Under **Custom applications**, select the "Digital Twin Manager".

Click **Save**.

![Permissions for bulk import](/images/dtm/bulk-import/dtm-bulk-import-assign-permissions.png)

Once the permissions are assigned, bulk import feature can be used.

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
If the permissions are not assigned, then the CSV template will not get downloaded correctly.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> ##### Download CSV template for bulk import

Reviewer 2: Same, please check the heading levels.

> ##### Download CSV template for bulk import

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Download the CSV template for bulk import
```

> You have to download the CSV template for the required **Asset type** first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must download the CSV template for the required **Asset type** first.
```

> * Navigate to **Assets** page. Click on **Import assets**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Navigate to the **Assets** page. Click **Import assets**.
```

> * IMPORT ASSETS window loads with a “Choose Asset type” dropdown.

Reviewer 2: Again, this whole steps should be a numbered list.

* If no asset types are created yet, then only “Group” asset type is listed in the dropdown.

* If you have added the asset types, all the Root Asset types will be listed in the dropdown.

* Select the **Asset type** for which the Asset hierarchy must be created.

![bulk-import-asset](/images/dtm/bulk-import/dtm-bulk-import-import-assets-window.png)

* On selection, below 2 additional options appear.
1.	**Drop file here** section: An option to upload the CSV template as file, for importing assets in bulk.
2.	**Download Template** option: To download the CSV template for chosen **Asset type**.

* Click on **Download Template** option to download the CSV template.

##### CSV template attributes

The CSV template has the following fields:

> *	AssetType/DeviceType : Fill the Key of the Asset type here. This field is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: Please make this a table

*	AssetName : Provide the name of the Asset to be created here. AssetName is mandatory.
*	Path : If you are creating a root asset, this field will be blank. If you are creating a child asset, then the path must be provided until the parent asset.

**Example:**

If the hierarchy is like “Building --> Floor --> Room” and you want to enter details to create a Room asset “Room 1”. Then **Path** value for “Room 1” asset will be “Building 1/Floor 1”, where “Building 1” and “Floor 1” are the assets for Building and Floor Asset types respectively.

> *	Device ID/External ID : If the asset being created has a device associated with it, then provide the Device ID of the device here. This field is optional.

Reviewer 2: Please make this a table

<td style="text-align:left">Optional</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Description</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">briefly describes the asset being created.</td>
<td style="text-align:left">Optional</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left"><b>Custom properties for the asset type</b></td>
<td style="text-align:left">6th column onwards (in the CSV template), all the custom properties for the root asset types and all its subsequent child asset types are listed.<br><br>
<b>Info:</b><br>
The [Type](/dtm/asset-types/#types-of-custom-property) of the custom property is also mentioned as a label, for better understanding.
</td>
<td style="text-align:left">Mandatory</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

![bulk-import-template](/images/dtm/bulk-import/dtm-bulk-import-template.png)

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
Modify the excel settings to provide the date in a YYYY-MM-DD format. This prevents an auto-correct of the date on input.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

To provide a file input as a custom property value, the file must first be uploaded to a Cumulocity IoT tenant using the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} API.

> Refer to this section to upload a file in Cumulocity : [Provide link here]

Reviewer 3: what is the link here?

Reviewer: https://cumulocity.com/api/10.13.0/#operation/postBinariesCollectionResource

Reviewer 3: done

The binary ID in the API response must be provided as input for the custom property field with type "file" in the CSV template.

If the type is "Boolean", the input field must be either "true" or "false".
If the type is "enumeration", then the input field must be in the list of values specified during creation of the custom property.

> If the type is "text" or "number" and criteria were provided during custom property creation, then the input value in CSV template must fulfilf all the criteria.

Reviewer 3: what criteria might these be?

Reviewer: Custom property criterias

Reviewer 3: done

> If the type is "text" or "number" and criteria were provided during custom property creation, then the input value in CSV template must fulfilf all the criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the type is "text" or "number" and criteria were provided during custom property creation, then the input value in CSV template must fulfill all the criteria.
```

---
weight: 20
title: Creating assets via bulk import
layout: redirect
---

To import the entire asset hierarchy with all assets at once, use the bulk import feature.
For each [asset type](/dtm/asset-types/#asset-types), a CSV template is provided.
Fill in the required details in this template and upload the file to create the assets in a bulk for the selected asset type.

<a name=""></a>
### To create a role to use the bulk import feature

> To use the Bulk import feature, you must provide permission for **Digital Twin** role, following these steps:

Reviewer: @MWindel test comment
